---
_layout: software-download
_template: software-project-download
title: Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1
intro: >
  This is the official release page for
  version 0.6.1.1 of the for Zinc
  NPRuntime plugin. The Zinc plugin is
  available for the Windows and Linux
  platforms.
description:
navtitle: Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1
downloadlinks:
  - 
    distrib_link: >
      ftp://ftp.bioeng.auckland.ac.nz/cmiss/zinc/zinc-0.6.1.1-win32.xpi
    distrib_linktext: >
      Download Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1 Firefox
      installer for Windows.
    distrib_file_size:
    distrib_platform: Windows
  - 
    distrib_link: >
      ftp://ftp.bioeng.auckland.ac.nz/cmiss/zinc/zinc-0.6.1.1-linux-x86_64.xpi
    distrib_linktext: >
      Download Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1 64 bit
      Firefox installer for Linux.
    distrib_file_size:
    distrib_platform: Linux 64 bit
  - 
    distrib_link: >
      ftp://ftp.bioeng.auckland.ac.nz/cmiss/zinc/zinc-0.6.1.1-linux.xpi
    distrib_linktext: >
      Download Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1 32 bit
      Firefox installer for Linux.
    distrib_file_size:
    distrib_platform: Linux 32 bit
  - 
    distrib_link: >
      ftp://ftp.bioeng.auckland.ac.nz/cmiss/zinc/zinc-0.6.1.1.tar.gz
    distrib_linktext: >
      Download the source code and compile
      Zinc plugin 0.6.1.1 for your system.
    distrib_file_size:
    distrib_platform: Source code
---
<dl class="inline-display clearfix"> <dt>Status</dt> <dd>Final</dd> <dt>License</dt> <dd><a href="http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/" title="External link: Mozilla Public License.">MPL</a></dd> <dt>Release manager</dt> <dd>Peter Bier</dd> <dt>Release date</dt> <dd>10 May 2007</dd> <dt>Tested with</dt> <dd>Firefox 2.0</dd> </dl>

This is the official release page for version 0.6.1.1 of the for Zinc NPRuntime plugin. The Zinc plugin is available for the Windows and Linux platforms

#### Image filter options

The dialogs for setting image filter options now have a preview window, allowing you to see the effect of changing parameters before applying the filter to your image The preview window can be toggled to show the original image or a preview based on the parameters that can be adjusted from the dialogs. The preview image resolution can be adjusted. The lower the resolution, the quicker it is to display the preview. When using a fast computer it is possible to set the preview to automatically update in real time as you adjust the parameters. For slower machines it is better to turn this option off and generate a preview by pressing the preview button.

#### Canny edge detection

The Canny edge detection image filter has been extended to allow more control by setting 4 parameters. Detailed help has been added to explain what the paramters do.

#### Memory management

Memory management has been improved to prevent firefox crashing when closing a zinc application by using the back button, home button or selecting something from your bookmarks. The garbage collection now works well for several of the machines tested but on one machine it was still possible to crash the browser by loading up a zinc application, using the back button and then loading up another zinc application. This issue may be related to which graphics card your machine has installed.

#### Windows fix

The windows version now displays the plugin as the correct size, rather than a tiny 100x100 square.

##### Change log

- Preview window added to all dialogs
- Rewrote javascript for dialogs to call one function shared between all dialogs where possible
- Extended canny edge detection filter to be able to set variance, kernel width, upper threshold and lower threshold.
- Added help for new canny edge parameters
- Improved garbage collection so that use of back, forward and home buttons or bookmarks should not produce a crash
- Emoter now works which means the boxfish swims
- Plugin size problem on windows version is fixed.